# ExRAM
Originally based on the Arduino EEPROM programmer as featured in a [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K88pgWhEb1M) by the master of breadboards, Ben Eater. I started this project with his code at the heart of it all, then coerced it into becoming a way of loading data onto a 62256 static RAM chip before adding a bunch of features to the whole overall package.

The Arduino has a fully functioning command-line interface added to it so that you can send it commands using most fully-featured terminal programs, the one I use for this project is Tera Term for Windows. The configuration I use is included in the project files, but you will most certainly have to change the COM-port used to make it work - there's nothing special added to it other than line-delays in order to make data transfers more reliable. The reason for the delays is that the Arduino Nano doesn't include any form of hardware-based flow control so while it still runs at a whopping 16Mhz, it doesn't even come close to being able to compete with modern laptop so it gets easily overflowed with data).

The interface currently supports loading data in the form of both Intel HEX-files as well as the more ancient Paper-tape formats. For a complete listing of the supported commands, type **help** and press ENTER for a listing of the currently supported commands. If you find that the output contains a bunch of wierd characters like the title being shown as "[1;37mExRAM 0.2", then that's probably just that the terminal software doesn't support the [terminal codes](https://wiki.bash-hackers.org/scripting/terminalcodes) that I added to it (unfortunately, the Arduino serial terminal is one of them) - you can either just disable them by giving the command *ansi off* or recompile the sketch with the feature disabled.